- [Instructor] Now up until this point
and throughout the rest of this course actually,
we've been looking into DAO pattern.
But there's an alternate pattern that many people use
especially in the web world
and that's the repository pattern.
Now the differences between the repository pattern
and DAO pattern
is that the repository pattern focuses only
on single-table access per class.
And in fact the DAO that we've worked with to date
could be a repository in this use case
cause we've only been interacting with the customer data.
Now that's going to change throughout the rest of this course
but keep in mind that a repository in a DAO,
when you're dealing with a single-table
are very, very similar.
Now instead of doing joining in the database,
in the repository pattern, you join in the code.
So I would select everything from the orders namespace
for instance,
get the ID of the customer
and then go to the customer repository
and find the customer with that ID
and then join it in code.
Whereas of the DAO pattern,
I would get the order and then I would take the customer
and join it to the order table
where that foreign key relationship exists.
Now really, distribution is where repositories
really have their strength.
Complex joins in the database
require a single instance of the database themselves.
And in reality,
that requires vertical scaling of your database.
But when you're distributing around the world,
vertical scaling doesn't always work.
And the repository pattern allows you to shard your database
in such a way that you can focus on single-table access
instead of accessing the entire database as a whole.
Now you can store one piece of data in a separate database
to facilitate this distribution.
For instance, if your customer data is need globally,
but your order data isn't,
then by separating them out and leveraging
the repository pattern,
you can achieve global distribution of one element
while not so much on the other.
Now really to decide which pattern to go with,
you have to understand your constraints.
Now if your application is DB constrained,
the repository pattern can help
because you don't do joins in the database.
So if you're taking a lot of load on your web framework,
but your database becomes the bottleneck,
repository pattern could help.
If your application is horizontally scalable,
the repository pattern really fits in.
But if it's vertically scalable,
you may find yourself better value out of a DAO
if your data is highly normalized.
So if you've gone through the time in your relational model
to get everything to third normal form,
DAOs become very valuable because those joins are simple.
And because those joins are simple,
you should see some results of letting the database
do the processing.
And do you need atomic transactions that cross data tables?
if you need atomic transactions,
the repository pattern is out.
It's very, very hard if not impossible
with most modern frameworks to do truly atomic operations
without bringing in extra transaction managers
to handle cross table design,
and then you can really get into trouble still.
It's often easier
when you're dealing with atomic transactions
to just leverage the database.
Now it's not impossible to do it in repository pattern
and I've done it many times.
I just find it myself significantly easier in a DAO world
when you have atomic transactions across data tables.
So the DAO pattern, the repository pattern,
either way will work in modern systems.
It's really where do you want to put your processing.
A lot of times developers that don't know SQL very well
find immediate value out of the repository pattern
because they only needed a simple crud operations
without any joins.
However, database developers and people who have focused
a lot of time on databases
may find that leveraging indexes
and leveraging functionality in the database
can actually improve performance by using DAOs.
So it's really up to your use case
but you really have to focus on which of those
adds the most value and go from there.